How to install Nano-SIM card & eSIM on the Galaxy S24 Series | Samsung UK Skip to content Skip to accessibility help Choose your location and language. United Kingdom / EnglishOther Countries or location Continue Close previous menu Open Search Layer Search close menu Sign In/Sign-Up Why Create a Samsung Account? Open My Menu Why Create a Samsung Account? Shop Shop Offers Mobile Offers Television Offers Laptop & Computing Offers Monitors Offers Home Appliances Offers Galaxy Gifts Special Stores Student & Youth Offers Key Worker & Teacher Offers Business Offers Samsung KX LDN Benefits Why Buy From Samsung Samsung Care+ Samsung Rewards Mobile Trade-in TV & Appliance Trade-up Price Promise Samsung Finance PayPal credit Klarna Upgrade Members New & Featured Shop Home Download Shop App Mobile Mobile Mobile Discover Mobile Galaxy Smartphone Galaxy Tab Galaxy Book Galaxy Watch Galaxy Buds Galaxy Ring Galaxy Accessories Galaxy AI One UI Samsung Health Apps & Services Why Galaxy Switch to Galaxy New & Featured Galaxy Z Fold6 Galaxy Z Flip6 Galaxy S24 Ultra Galaxy S24 | S24+ Galaxy S24 FE Galaxy Tab S10 Series Galaxy Watch Ultra Galaxy Buds3 Pro Galaxy AI TV & AV TV & AV TVs All TVs Neo QLED OLED QLED Crystal UHD The Frame The Serif The Terrace The Sero TV Accessories TVs by Sizes 98 inch 83 & 85 inch 75 & 77 inch 65 inch 55 inch 48 & 50 inch 43 inch 32 inch or smaller TVs by Resolution 8K TVs 4K TVs Full HD/HD TVs Sound Devices All Sound Devices Q-Series Soundbars Ultra Slim Soundbars S-Series Soundbars B-Series Soundbars Music Frame Sound Tower Audio Accessories Projectors All Projectors The Premiere The Freestyle Projector Accessories Discover Why Samsung TV Why 8K TV Why Neo QLED Why Samsung OLED Why The Frame Samsung Smart TV Best Gaming TV Super Big TV Best Samsung TV for Sports MICRO LED Buying Guide Help choose my TV Help choose my Sound Device TV Buying Guide Soundbar Buying Guide Discover TVs Discover Lifestyle TVs Discover Sound Devices Discover Projectors Appliances Appliances Refrigerators All Refrigerators French Door Side-by-Side Bottom Freezer One Door Refrigerator Accessories Laundry All Laundry Washers Washer Dryers Tumble Dryers Laundry Accessories Vacuum Cleaners All Vacuums Jet Stick Vacuums Jet Bot Robot Vacuums Vacuum Accessories Bespoke JetTM Cooking Appliances All Cooking Appliances Ovens Hobs Microwave Ovens Hoods Cooking Appliance Accessories Dishwashers All Dishwashers Built-in Free-standing Discover AI Energy Saving Welcome to Bespoke AI Smart Forward Buying Guide Refrigerators Buying Guide Laundry Buying Guide Vacuum Buying Guide Appliances Buying Guide Discover Refrigerators Discover Laundry Discover Vacuum Cleaners Discover Cooking Appliances Discover All Appliances Computing & Displays Computing & Displays Galaxy Book & Laptops All Laptops Galaxy Book Ultra Galaxy Book Pro 360 Galaxy Book Edge Galaxy Book 360 & Galaxy Book Galaxy Chromebook Laptop Accessories Copilot+ PCs Computer Monitors All Monitors Odyssey Gaming ViewFinity High Resolution Smart Monitors Ultrawide Curved 4K UHD Full HD Displays for Business Smart Signage LED Signage Commercial TVs Business Monitors Memory & Storage All Memory & Storage NVME SSD SATA SSD Portable SSD Memory Cards USB Flash Drive Discover Why Odyssey Gaming Monitor Why ViewFinity High Resolution Compare Galaxy Books Windows 11 Galaxy Books Download Center Buying Guide Help choose my Monitor Monitor Buying Guide Discover Galaxy Book Discover Computer Monitors Discover Memory & Storage Accessories SmartThings AI AI AI Galaxy AI Samsung AI TV Bespoke AI Discover Discover AI Support Support Product Help Support Home Manual & Software Search Support Shop FAQ Contact Contact Us Sign Language Support Repairs & Warranty Troubleshoot & Book a Repair Track My Repair Warranty Information Self Repair Additional Support News & Alerts Community Discover Warranty Manual Download Contact Us For Business Search Search Basket https://shop.samsung.com/uk/cart/ Number of Products : Sign In/Sign-Up Sign In/Sign-Up Why Create a Samsung Account? Orders Product Registration Samsung Rewards Members Open My Menu Why Create a Samsung Account? My Page Orders Wishlist Product Registration My Rewards Members Log out Navigation Your basket is empty. OK Close Sorry this item is out of stock OK Close Remove Code not valid with this productAre you sure to remove this product? Add to wishlist Delete Close Privacy Policy I have read and agree to the Samsung.com Privacy Policy Tick this box to proceed to Samsung.com. By ticking this box, I accept Samsung Service Updates, including : Samsung.com Services and marketing information, new product and service announcements as well as special offers, events and newsletters. PROCEED TO SAMSUNG.COM Close Close Privacy Policy Check preferences Help us to make recommendations for you by telling us what you like Yes Later Close Check Preferences Search Form Clear No Suggestions Suggested searches POPULAR SEARCHES RECENT SEARCHES RELATED PRODUCTS RECOMMENDED Close How to install Nano-SIM card & eSIM on the Galaxy S24 Series SIM cards are a vital part of your Galaxy phone, without one, you won't be able to do anything. It's important to know how to insert and activate a SIM card or eSIM, in case you need two phone numbers for a single device. Before starting. make sure that your device's software and related apps are updated to the latest versions. To update your mobile device's software, please follow these steps: Step 1. Go to Settings > Software update. Step 2. Tap on Download and install. Step 3. Follow the on-screen instructions. What is an eSIM and a nano-SIM card? SIM cards allow you access your service provider's mobile data network so you can make calls, send messages, and more. To have two phone numbers, or two service providers on a single device, you can activate an eSIM, or insert two SIM cards. An eSIM is an embedded digital SIM, unlike a physical nano-SIM card. Please note, using both a nano-SIM card and eSIM at the same time may result in slower data transfer speeds in some areas. Nano-SIM eSIM Dual SIM Scenario: SIM1 (Physical SIM) + SIM2 (Physical SIM or eSIM) Inserting the SIM correctly into the dual SIM card tray Incorrectly inserted SIM cards may not be recognised by your phone. Check that your SIM card is placed on the tray with the gold coloured contact facing upwards and fixed firmly into the tray. If using dual SIM cards, ensure both SIMs are inserted into the card tray with both gold coloured contacts facing outwards. SIM1 (Front side) SIM2 (Back side) How to insert a SIM card in your phone Step 1. Insert the ejection pin into the tray hole to release it. Step 2. Pull the tray out gently from the tray slot. Step 3. Place the SIM or USIM card on the tray with the gold coloured contacts facing outwards and gently press the SIM or USIM card into the tray to secure it. Step 4. Insert the tray back into the tray slot. Please Note: If the SIM card is not placed exactly into the tray slots, the tray may not insert, or the SIM card may not be recognised once inside. Only use nano-SIM cards. Ensure that the ejection pin is perpendicular to the hole; otherwise, the device may become damaged. If the card is not fixed firmly into the tray, the SIM card may fall out of the tray. If you insert the tray into your device while the tray is wet, your device may become damaged. Always ensure the tray is completely dry. Fully insert the tray into the tray slot to prevent liquid from entering your device. How to activate an eSIM Your Galaxy S24 Series phone includes an eSIM which functions as a SIM card. Mobile networks can be used after activating the eSIM, or installing a nano-SIM card. To activate an eSIM, follow the steps below. Step 1. Launch the Settings app and tap Connections. Step 2. Tap SIM manager. Step 3. Tap Add eSIM. Step 4. When a mobile plan is found, follow the on-screen instructions to activate the eSIM. If you have a QR code provided by your service provider, launch the Settings app, tap Connections > SIM manager > Add eSIM > Scan QR code, and then scan the QR code. Please Note: An eSIM requires a wireless service plan and allows you to activate a mobile network plan without the use of a nano-SIM. eSIM usage may not be available depending on your service provider, region, or device model. How to use the SIM card manager (dual SIM models) You can customise your SIM card settings and activate or deactivate installed SIM cards in the SIM card manager menu. Launch the Settings app and tap Connections > SIM card manager. SIM cards: Activate the SIM card you want to use and customise the SIM card settings. eSIMs: Activate the eSIM. Preferred SIM card: When two cards are activated, specify which SIM card you want to use for specific features, such as voice calls. Auto data switching: Set the device to use another SIM card for data services, if the preferred SIM card cannot connect to the network. More SIM card settings: Customise call or eSIM settings. Please Note: Some services that require a network connection may not be available depending on your service provider. Device screenshots and menus may vary depending on your device model and software version. Make the most of your Galaxy S24 with how-to video guides, useful tips, apps and services, accessories, offers and support. Learn more here. Related Questions How to use super fast charging on Galaxy S24 Ultra, S24+ & S24 How to Fast Charge Galaxy S24 Series Wired or Wirelessly How to use the Circle to Search feature on Galaxy devices Yes No Comments: (Optional) SUBMIT Thank you for your feedback! Please answer all questions. Close popup Contact Info Samsung Account Get connected with Samsung Account. Your gateway to all things Samsung Sign in Create an account Troubleshoot and book a repair Support for your mobile devices, home appliances, TV and computing products Learn more Contact us For support buying a product, help with an order or technical product support Learn more View more Home Home Product Help & Support Product Help & Support Mobile Device Mobile Device How to install Nano-SIM card & eSIM on the Galaxy S24 Series How to install Nano-SIM card & eSIM on the Galaxy S24 Series Footer Navigation Product & Service Open Smartphones Tablets Audio Sound Watches Smart Switch Mobile Accessories TVs Lifestyle TVs Sound Devices Refrigerators Laundry Cooking Appliances Air Solutions Monitors Memory Storage Shop Open All Offers Contract Phones Trade In Deals Samsung Upgrade Programme Samsung Experts – Buying Advice Track Your Order Delivery and Returns Online Shop FAQs Samsung Shop App Business Shop Student & Youth Offers Key Worker & Teacher Offers Samsung Experience Store Samsung KX LDN Explore Support Open Solutions, Manuals & Downloads Book a Repair Track my Repair Contact Us Warranty Information How to Guides Email CEO Product Registration Rate your experience Safety Notice Account & Community Open My page My products Orders Wishlist Members Vouchers Community Samsung Rewards Sustainability Open Environment Security & Privacy Accessibility Diversity · Equity · Inclusion Corporate Citizenship Corporate Sustainability Modern Slavery Act Statement Gender Pay Gap Reports Online Safety About Us Open Company Info Business Area Brand Identity Careers Investor Relations Newsroom Ethics Samsung Design Tax strategy Copyright© 1995-2024 Samsung. All rights reserved. United Kingdom/English United Kingdom/English Terms and Conditions Privacy Cookies Legal Sitemap STAY IN THE LOOP? Go to Top