How to set up & use the fingerprint recognition sensor on Galaxy S24 | Samsung UK Skip to content Skip to accessibility help Choose your location and language. United Kingdom / EnglishOther Countries or location Continue Close previous menu Open Search Layer Search close menu Sign In/Sign-Up Why Create a Samsung Account? Open My Menu Why Create a Samsung Account? Shop Shop Offers Mobile Offers Television Offers Laptop & Computing Offers Monitors Offers Home Appliances Offers Galaxy Gifts Special Stores Student & Youth Offers Key Worker & Teacher Offers Business Offers Samsung KX LDN Benefits Why Buy From Samsung Samsung Care+ Samsung Rewards Mobile Trade-in TV & Appliance Trade-up Price Promise Samsung Finance PayPal credit Klarna Upgrade Members New & Featured Shop Home Download Shop App Mobile Mobile Mobile Discover Mobile Galaxy Smartphone Galaxy Tab Galaxy Book Galaxy Watch Galaxy Buds Galaxy Ring Galaxy Accessories Galaxy AI One UI Samsung Health Apps & Services Why Galaxy Switch to Galaxy New & Featured Galaxy Z Fold6 Galaxy Z Flip6 Galaxy S24 Ultra Galaxy S24 | S24+ Galaxy S24 FE Galaxy Tab S10 Series Galaxy Watch Ultra Galaxy Buds3 Pro Galaxy AI TV & AV TV & AV TVs All TVs Neo QLED OLED QLED Crystal UHD The Frame The Serif The Terrace The Sero TV Accessories TVs by Sizes 98 inch 83 & 85 inch 75 & 77 inch 65 inch 55 inch 48 & 50 inch 43 inch 32 inch or smaller TVs by Resolution 8K TVs 4K TVs Full HD/HD TVs Sound Devices All Sound Devices Q-Series Soundbars Ultra Slim Soundbars S-Series Soundbars B-Series Soundbars Music Frame Sound Tower Audio Accessories Projectors All Projectors The Premiere The Freestyle Projector Accessories Discover Why Samsung TV Why 8K TV Why Neo QLED Why Samsung OLED Why The Frame Samsung Smart TV Best Gaming TV Super Big TV Best Samsung TV for Sports MICRO LED Buying Guide Help choose my TV Help choose my Sound Device TV Buying Guide Soundbar Buying Guide Discover TVs Discover Lifestyle TVs Discover Sound Devices Discover Projectors Appliances Appliances Refrigerators All Refrigerators French Door Side-by-Side Bottom Freezer One Door Refrigerator Accessories Laundry All Laundry Washers Washer Dryers Tumble Dryers Laundry Accessories Vacuum Cleaners All Vacuums Jet Stick Vacuums Jet Bot Robot Vacuums Vacuum Accessories Bespoke JetTM Cooking Appliances All Cooking Appliances Ovens Hobs Microwave Ovens Hoods Cooking Appliance Accessories Dishwashers All Dishwashers Built-in Free-standing Discover AI Energy Saving Welcome to Bespoke AI Smart Forward Buying Guide Refrigerators Buying Guide Laundry Buying Guide Vacuum Buying Guide Appliances Buying Guide Discover Refrigerators Discover Laundry Discover Vacuum Cleaners Discover Cooking Appliances Discover All Appliances Computing & Displays Computing & Displays Galaxy Book & Laptops All Laptops Galaxy Book Ultra Galaxy Book Pro 360 Galaxy Book Edge Galaxy Book 360 & Galaxy Book Galaxy Chromebook Laptop Accessories Copilot+ PCs Computer Monitors All Monitors Odyssey Gaming ViewFinity High Resolution Smart Monitors Ultrawide Curved 4K UHD Full HD Displays for Business Smart Signage LED Signage Commercial TVs Business Monitors Memory & Storage All Memory & Storage NVME SSD SATA SSD Portable SSD Memory Cards USB Flash Drive Discover Why Odyssey Gaming Monitor Why ViewFinity High Resolution Compare Galaxy Books Windows 11 Galaxy Books Download Center Buying Guide Help choose my Monitor Monitor Buying Guide Discover Galaxy Book Discover Computer Monitors Discover Memory & Storage Accessories SmartThings AI AI AI Galaxy AI Samsung AI TV Bespoke AI Discover Discover AI Support Support Product Help Support Home Manual & Software Search Support Shop FAQ Contact Contact Us Sign Language Support Repairs & Warranty Troubleshoot & Book a Repair Track My Repair Warranty Information Self Repair Additional Support News & Alerts Community Discover Warranty Manual Download Contact Us For Business Search Search Basket https://shop.samsung.com/uk/cart/ Number of Products : Sign In/Sign-Up Sign In/Sign-Up Why Create a Samsung Account? Orders Product Registration Samsung Rewards Members Open My Menu Why Create a Samsung Account? My Page Orders Wishlist Product Registration My Rewards Members Log out Navigation Your basket is empty. OK Close Sorry this item is out of stock OK Close Remove Code not valid with this productAre you sure to remove this product? Add to wishlist Delete Close Privacy Policy I have read and agree to the Samsung.com Privacy Policy Tick this box to proceed to Samsung.com. By ticking this box, I accept Samsung Service Updates, including : Samsung.com Services and marketing information, new product and service announcements as well as special offers, events and newsletters. PROCEED TO SAMSUNG.COM Close Close Privacy Policy Check preferences Help us to make recommendations for you by telling us what you like Yes Later Close Check Preferences Search Form Clear No Suggestions Suggested searches POPULAR SEARCHES RECENT SEARCHES RELATED PRODUCTS RECOMMENDED Close How to set up & use the fingerprint recognition sensor on Galaxy S24 Your Samsung Galaxy phone’s fingerprint sensor provides a convenient and secure way to unlock your phone and keeps your personal information safe. If you are having trouble using your fingerprint sensor, follow these tips below. Before starting make sure that your device's software and related apps are updated to the latest versions. To update your mobile device's software, please follow these steps: Step 1. Go to Settings > Software update. Step 2. Tap on Download and install. Step 3. Follow the on-screen instructions. Fingerprint security on your phone Fingerprint recognition uses your fingerprint’s unique characteristics to enhance your device security. Using a fingerprint to unlock your phone is faster and more convenient than a PIN or password. To use fingerprint recognition, your fingerprint information needs first to be registered and stored in your device. Please Note: Do not use the fingerprint function under water. Fingerprint recognition is blocked under water, even for IP68-certified devices. How to register your fingerprint Step 1. Launch the Settings app and tap Security and Privacy. Step 2. Tap Lock Screen. Step 3. Tap Fingerprints. Step 4. Read the on-screen instructions and tap Continue. Step 5. Set a secure screen lock method. Place your finger on the fingerprint recognition sensor. Once the device detects your finger, raise it and place it on the fingerprint recognition sensor again. Repeat this action until the fingerprint is registered successfully. For better fingerprint recognition When scanning your fingerprints on your device, keep in mind the following conditions that may affect the performance of this feature: The device may not recognise fingerprints that are wrinkled or scarred. The device may not recognise fingerprints from small or thin fingers. To improve recognition performance, register the fingerprints of the fingers you use most often to perform tasks on your device. Your device has a built-in fingerprint recognition sensor at the bottom centre of the screen. Ensure that the screen protector or the touchscreen on the fingerprint recognition sensor area is not scratched or damaged by objects, such as coins, keys, pens, and necklaces. Ensure that your fingers and the fingerprint recognition sensor area at the bottom centre of the screen are clean and dry. If you bend your finger or use your fingertip, the device may not recognise your fingerprint. Press the screen so that your fingertip spreads fully over the surface of the fingerprint recognition area. How to use fingerprint recognition Unlocking the screen with your fingerprints You can unlock the screen with your fingerprint instead of using a pattern, PIN, or password. Step 1. On the Settings screen, tap Security and Privacy > Lock Screen > Fingerprints. Step 2. Unlock the screen using the preset screen lock method. Step 3. Tap the Fingerprint unlock switch to activate it. On the lock screen, place your finger on the fingerprint recognition sensor and scan your fingerprint. Making the fingerprint icon visible Set the device to show or hide the fingerprint recognition icon when you tap the screen while the screen is turned off. Step 1. On the Settings screen, tap Security and Privacy > Lock Screen > Fingerprints. Step 2. Unlock the screen using the preset screen lock method. Step 3. Tap Show icon when screen is off and select an option. Deleting registered fingerprints You can delete fingerprints that you have registered. Step 1. On the Settings screen, tap Security and Privacy > Lock Screen > Fingerprints. Step 2. Unlock the screen using the preset screen lock method. Step 3. Select a fingerprint to delete and tap Remove. If fingerprint recognition is set but the PIN, Pattern, Password release screen appears If you choose biometrics recognition, which includes using Fingerprints or Facial recognition to unlock your phone, the PIN, Pattern or Password request screen may still appear instead of Fingerprints or Facial recognition, depending on your Android OS policy. If you have used and unlocked the device using Biometrics including Fingerprints or Facial recognition in the past 24 hours. If 4 hours pass without an additional unlock operation after unlocking your device using Fingerprints or Facial recognition. If 72 hours pass after unlocking your device using a PIN, Pattern or Password while fingerprint is set as screen lock type. This is an intended response for enhanced security of your device. Additionally, you can only use a PIN, Pattern or Password to unlock the screen after restarting the device or when you don’t use the device for more than 24 hours. If your phone doesn't recognise your fingerprint immediately To reduce any noise that may temporarily be generated when the screen is turned on or off, there is a 0.3 second delay before initialising the related touch module. Because of this, if you try to recognise your fingerprint as soon as you turn the screen on or off, the device may not immediately recognise it. Try again and the feature should work. If fingerprint recognition is unintentionally attempted and vibration or unlocking occurs To avoid unintentional fingerprint recognition, the Fingerprint always on feature should be disabled. If the feature is enabled, your phone will continue to try to scan your fingerprint as long as you hold your phone. This may cause unwanted vibrations or unlocking. If you think this feature is inconvenient, follow the steps below to disable the feature. Step 1. Launch the Settings app and tap Security and Privacy > Lock Screen. Step 2. Tap Fingerprint. Step 3. Turn off the switch next to Fingerprint always on. Please Note: Device screenshots and menus may vary depending on the device model and software version. You may need to re-register your fingerprint after applying a new film or glass screen protector. When registering or scanning your fingerprint, make sure to use the highest central part of the fingerprint or the most curved part of the fingerprint. If there are patterns, protrusions, dots, etc. on the surface of the protective film or glass screen protector, or if you use a third-party product that is not certified for compatibility, the fingerprint recognition feature may not work properly. Please check compatibility or recognition accuracy before use. Certified screen protectors are available at online and offline Samsung stores. Make the most of your Galaxy S24 with how-to video guides, useful tips, apps and services, accessories, offers and support. Learn more here. Related Questions How to use super fast charging on Galaxy S24 Ultra, S24+ & S24 How to install Nano-SIM card & eSim on the Galaxy S24 Series How to Fast Charge Galaxy S24 Series Wired or Wirelessly Yes No Comments: (Optional) SUBMIT Thank you for your feedback! Please answer all questions. Close popup Contact Info Samsung Account Get connected with Samsung Account. Your gateway to all things Samsung Sign in Create an account Troubleshoot and book a repair Support for your mobile devices, home appliances, TV and computing products Learn more Contact us For support buying a product, help with an order or technical product support Learn more View more Home Home Product Help & Support Product Help & Support Mobile Device Mobile Device How to set up & use the fingerprint recognition sensor on Galaxy S24 How to set up & use the fingerprint recognition sensor on Galaxy S24 Footer Navigation Product & Service Open Smartphones Tablets Audio Sound Watches Smart Switch Mobile Accessories TVs Lifestyle TVs Sound Devices Refrigerators Laundry Cooking Appliances Air Solutions Monitors Memory Storage Shop Open All Offers Contract Phones Trade In Deals Samsung Upgrade Programme Samsung Experts – Buying Advice Track Your Order Delivery and Returns Online Shop FAQs Samsung Shop App Business Shop Student & Youth Offers Key Worker & Teacher Offers Samsung Experience Store Samsung KX LDN Explore Support Open Solutions, Manuals & Downloads Book a Repair Track my Repair Contact Us Warranty Information How to Guides Email CEO Product Registration Rate your experience Safety Notice Account & Community Open My page My products Orders Wishlist Members Vouchers Community Samsung Rewards Sustainability Open Environment Security & Privacy Accessibility Diversity · Equity · Inclusion Corporate Citizenship Corporate Sustainability Modern Slavery Act Statement Gender Pay Gap Reports Online Safety About Us Open Company Info Business Area Brand Identity Careers Investor Relations Newsroom Ethics Samsung Design Tax strategy Copyright© 1995-2024 Samsung. All rights reserved. United Kingdom/English United Kingdom/English Terms and Conditions Privacy Cookies Legal Sitemap STAY IN THE LOOP? Go to Top